- [Presenter] Using GitOps
to deliver Cloud Native applications requires
a tool set that supports a high degree
of automation and interoperability.
Within that tool set, some tools
have emerged specifically with GitOps in mind.
Others were around prior to GitOps
and just happened to fit well with the new approach.
Let's start by looking at some of the preexisting tools
that compliment GitOps.
As the name implies GitOps is centered around using Git.
So it's no surprise,
you'll need a source control management system like GitHub.
GitHub is used to store your repositories
and it provides management features like security
and pull requests that are not found in vanilla Git.
A build server is another tool you'll need forget GitOps.
It handles the continuous integration piece
of the workflow by assembling testing
and then packaging software into a container image.
In a GitOps workflow, a build servers main purpose
is to create quality software artifacts
and to place them inside the artifact repository.
The artifact repository serves as the official source
for different versions of our packaged software.
It makes artifacts like container images available
to be run as workloads on Kubernetes
which is our container orchestration platform.
These tools can be used independently of GitOps
even if you haven't heard of GitOps,
you've probably recognize some of the names of the tools
that I've listed.
Now let's shift our focus and explore a new breed of tools
that are more targeted towards
enabling different GitOps use cases
for Cloud Native applications.
The first group is used to declaratively describe
and repeatedly provision infrastructure
like Kubernetes clusters and virtual machines.
You'll find tools like Terraform
and AWS CloudFormation within this group.
In most GitOps workflows, these tools establish
the base layer Kubernetes cluster
that application workloads are deployed upon.
Once the cluster is established,
our next group of tools deployment operators
are used for continuous deployment of changes to resources
like services and pods running on the Kubernetes cluster.
This includes tools like Flux and Argo CD
that run as controllers inside of Kubernetes.
Within the cluster these tools constantly monitor
and observe its state to automatically reconcile
any differences between Git and the running workload.
This is what allows developers
to solely interface with Git.
In some GitOps workflows, containerized applications
may leveraged advanced release strategies
that are conducted by progressive delivery tools,
tools like Flagger and Argo Rollouts use techniques
that control traffic to different versions
of an application.
These release strategies can be defined declaratively
and stored as part of the systems desired state.
This allows new versions of an app
to be gradually introduced using techniques
like Canary deployments and AB testing
that verify the new software before fully releasing it.
The GitOps tools you'll encounter will vary
because not everybody does GitOps the same way.
However, the tool should have one common characteristic
which is that they store configuration declaratively in Git
and that's their interface for the developer,
that's the pattern, that's GitOps.
Next, we're going to dive in and sample a few of these tools.